## The basic grammar of go

Go is a statically typed, concurrent programming language developed by Google. The basic grammar of Go language includes: 
Variables, Types, Functions, Control structures, Arrays and slices, Maps, Structs

### Variables

Variables in Go are declared using the "var" keyword followed by the variable name and its type.

In Go, you can define a variable using the "var" keyword followed by the variable name, its type, and an optional value.

Here's the general syntax:

```
var <variable_name> <type> = <value>
```

For example, to define a string variable called name with the value "John", you would write:

```
var name string = "John"
```

If you don't want to assign an initial value to the variable, you can use the type to specify the type of the variable and leave the = and value part out:

```
var age int
```

### Types

Go has several built-in types such as string, int, float64, bool, etc.

We can also declare multiple variables of the same type in a single line:

```
var firstName, lastName string = "John", "Doe"
```


### Functions

Functions in Go are declared using the "func" keyword followed by the function name, parameters and the return type.

In Go, you can define a function using the "func" keyword followed by the function name, parameters, and an optional return value. Here's the general syntax:

```
func <function_name>(<parameter_list>) [<return_type>] {
    // function body
}
```

For example, here's a simple function that takes two integers as parameters and returns their sum:

```
func add(a int, b int) int {
    return a + b
}
```

### Control structures

Go has control structures such as "if-else", "for" loops and "switch" statements.

In Go, you can use an "if-else" statement to conditionally execute a block of code. Here's the general syntax:

```
if <condition> {
    // code to be executed if condition is true
} else {
    // code to be executed if condition is false
}
```

For example, here's an "if-else" statement that checks whether a number is positive or negative:

```
func checkSign(num int) {
    if num > 0 {
        fmt.Println(num, "is positive")
    } else {
        fmt.Println(num, "is negative")
    }
}
```

In Go, you can use an "if-else" statement to conditionally execute a block of code. Here's the general syntax:

```
if <condition> {
    // code to be executed if condition is true
} else {
    // code to be executed if condition is false
}
```

For example, here's an "if-else" statement that checks whether a number is positive or negative:

```
func checkSign(num int) {
    if num > 0 {
        fmt.Println(num, "is positive")
    } else {
        fmt.Println(num, "is negative")
    }
}
```
  
In this example, the checkSign function takes an integer num as a parameter and checks whether it is positive or negative. If num is greater than 0, it prints "is positive", otherwise it prints "is negative".
  
In Go, you can use a "for" loop to execute a block of code multiple times. Here are the different forms of "for" loop in Go:

The traditional for loop:
```
for i := 0; i < 10; i++ {
    // code to be executed
}
```
                   
In this form, the loop variable i is initialized to 0, the condition i < 10 is checked before each iteration, and i is incremented by 1 after each iteration.

The for-each loop:
  
```
numbers := []int{1, 2, 3, 4, 5}
for i, num := range numbers {
    fmt.Println("Index:", i, "Value:", num)
}
```
  
In this form, the loop iterates over the elements of an array or slice and i is the index and num is the value of the current element.

The infinite for loop:
  
```
for {
    // code to be executed
}
```
  
In this form, the loop continues to execute forever until a break statement is encountered.

You can use the "for" loop to iterate over a range of values, arrays, slices, strings, maps, or other collections in Go.

### Next 
    
Next part we will talk about left part of GO gramma. 
  
#### Arrays and slices

Go has arrays and slices which are used to store collections of values.

#### Maps

Go has maps which are key-value pairs used for efficient lookups.


#### Structs

Go has structs which are user-defined types that allow grouping of values together.
  





